enh(procedure) refacto ec2 monitoring procedure v2 (#157)
centreon/centreon-documentation: en/integrations/plugin-packs/procedures/cloud-aws-ec2.md

## Plugin-Pack assets

### Monitored objects

* EC2 standalone instances
* EC2 autoscaling groups
* EC2 Spot fleet requests

### Discovery rules

<!--DOCUSAURUS_CODE_TABS-->
<!--Hosts-->

| Rule name                           | Description                                                   |
| :---------------------------------- | :------------------------------------------------------------ |
| Cloud-Aws-Ec2-Api-HostDiscovery-Ec2 | Discover EC2 Instances from your Cloudwatch endpoint          |
| Cloud-Aws-Ec2-Api-HostDiscovery-Asg | Discover EC2 Autoscalingroups from your Cloudwatch endpoint   |

<!--Services-->

No services discovery rule available on this pack

<!--END_DOCUSAURUS_CODE_TABS-->

## Monitored metrics 

You can get more details on AWS/EC2 Cloudwatch metrics in the official AWS documentation: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/ec2/index.html. 

In addition to modes and metrics described here, it is also possible to monitor the following indicators:

 * Instance-Types: Number of instances of each AWS Family and associated types.

>  * Instance-Status: Global heath check and count of EC2 instances.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 * Instance-Status: Global health check and count of EC2 instances.
```

<!--Ec2-Diskio-->

This check is available with 'Cloud-Aws-Ec2-Asg' and 'Cloud-Aws-Ec2-Instance' Host Templates.

| Metric name     | Description                                                                                  |
| :-------------- | :------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| ReadIOPS        | The average number of disk read I/O operations per second. Unit: Count/Second                |
| WriteIOPS       | The average number of disk write I/O operations per second. Unit: Count/Second               |
| ReadThroughput  | The average number of bytes read from disk per second. Unit: Bytes/Second                    |
| WriteThroughput | The average number of bytes write to disk per second. Unit: Bytes/Second                     |
| ReadLatency     | The average amount of time taken per disk I/O read operation. Unit: Seconds                  |
| WriteLatency    | The average amount of time taken per disk I/O write operation. Unit: Seconds                 |
| DiskQueueDepth  | The number of outstanding IOs (read/write requests) waiting to access the disk. Unit: Count  |

> **Important notes** This metric is most of the time irrelevant or null when applied to an AutoscalingGroup

Reviewer: These metrics ?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Important notes** This metric is most of the time irrelevant or null when applied to an AutoscalingGroup
```

| NetworkPacketsOut | The number of packets sent out on all network interfaces by the instance. This metric identifies the volume of outgoing traffic in terms of the number of packets on a single instance. This metric is available for basic monitoring only. Unit: Packets/Second  |

<!--EC2Spot-Active-Instances-->

This check is available with 'Cloud-Aws-Ec2-Spot-Fleet-Request' Host Template

| Metric name         | Description                                                                   |
| :------------------ | :---------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| ActiveInstances     | Number of active instances for a give EC2Spot fleet request. Unit: Count.     |
| HealthyInstances    | Number of healthy instances for a give EC2Spot fleet request. Unit: Count.    |
| UnhealthyInstances  | Number of unhealthy instances for a give EC2Spot fleet request. Unit: Count.  |

<!--END_DOCUSAURUS_CODE_TABS-->

## Prerequisistes

### AWS Configuration

> Configure an access/secret key combo these privileges:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Configure a service account (access/secret key combo) for which the following privileges have to be granted:
```

| AWS Privilege                  | Description                                                     |
| :----------------------------- | :-------------------------------------------------------------- |
| ec2:DescribeInstances          | Display EC2 instances & ASG details                             |
| ec2:DescribeSpotFleetRequests  | Display EC2 Spot Fleet Requests details                         |
| cloudwatch:getMetricStatistics | Get metrics from the AWS/EC2 namespace on Cloudwatch            |

### Plugin dependencies

> To interact with Amazon APIs, you can use either use awscli binary or paws, a perl AWS SDK (recommended). You must install it on every poller that will monitor AWS resources. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To interact with Amazon APIs, you can use either use the *awscli* binary provided by Amazon or *paws*, a Perl AWS SDK (recommended). You must install it on every poller that will monitor AWS resources. 
```

> **Warning** At the moment it is not possible to use perl-Paws if you are using a proxy to reach AWS Cloudwatch APIs. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Warning** For now, it is not possible to use *paws* if you are using a proxy to reach AWS Cloudwatch APIs. 
```

<!--DOCUSAURUS_CODE_TABS-->

<!--perl-Paws-installation-->

```bash
yum install perl-Paws
```

<!--aws-cli-installation-->

```bash
yum install awscli
```

<!--END_DOCUSAURUS_CODE_TABS-->

## Setup 

<!--DOCUSAURUS_CODE_TABS-->

<!--Online IMP Licence & IT-100 Editions-->

1. Install the Centreon Plugin package on every poller expected to monitor Amazon EC2 ressources:

```bash
yum install centreon-plugin-Cloud-Aws-Ec2-Api
```

> 2. Install the monitoring templates from the Centreon Plugin-Pack on the "Configuration > Plugin packs > Manager" page

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. On the Centreon Web interface, install the Centreon Plugin-Pack on the "Configuration > Plugin Packs > Manager" page
```

<!--Offline IMP License-->

> 1. Install the Centreon Plugin package on every poller expected to monitor Amazon RDS ressources:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Install the Centreon Plugin package on every poller expected to monitor Amazon EC2 resources:
```

```bash
yum install centreon-plugin-Cloud-Aws-Ec2-Api
```

> 2. Install the Centreon Plugin-Pack RPM:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Install the Centreon Plugin-Pack RPM on the Centreon Central server:
```

```bash
yum install centreon-pack-cloud-aws-ec2.noarch
```

> 3. Install the monitoring templates from the Centreon Plugin-Pack on the "Configuration > Plugin packs > Manager" page

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. On the Centreon Web interface, install the Centreon Plugin-Pack on the "Configuration > Plugin Packs > Manager" page
```

<!--END_DOCUSAURUS_CODE_TABS-->

## Configuration

- Log into Centreon and add a new host through "Configuration > Hosts".

> - Apply the relevant Host Template. They all begins with "Cloud-Aws-Ec2*".  

Reviewer: "host" but "Host Template" ? We should discuss and state a standard in the objects naming and stick to it

Author: Indeed Host must be capitalized

|             | DUMMYOUTPUT     | Host check output. Default is 'This is a dummy check'. Customize it with your own if needed |

Set additionnal macros that comes with the Host Templates: 

<!--DOCUSAURUS_CODE_TABS-->

<!--Cloud-Aws-Ec2-Asg-&-Cloud-Aws-Ec2-Instance-->

| Mandatory   | Nom             | Description                                                |
| :---------- | :-------------- | :--------------------------------------------------------- |
| X           | AWSINSTANCENAME | Name of the instance you want to monitor                   |
| X           | AWSINSTANCETYPE | Type of instance to check ('instance' or 'cluster')        |

<!--Cloud-Aws-Ec2-Spot-Fleet-Request-->

| Mandatory   | Nom                | Description                                             |
| :---------- | :----------------- | :------------------------------------------------------ |
| X           | SPOTFLEETREQUESTID | Spot Fleet Request identifier. (e.g: sfr-abcd1234)      |

<!--END_DOCUSAURUS_CODE_TABS-->

## FAQ

### How can I test it through the CLI and what is the meaning of the command_line parameters ?

> Once the plugin installed, log into your Poller using the *centreon-engine* user account and test by running the following 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the plugin installed, log into your Centreon Poller using the *centreon-engine* user account and test by running the following 
```

command (Some of the parameters such as ```name``` have to be adjusted):

```bash
/usr/lib/centreon/plugins//centreon_aws_ec2_api.pl
	--plugin=cloud::aws::ec2::plugin
	--mode=cpu
	--custommode='awscli'
	--aws-secret-key='***'
	--aws-access-key='AKIA5EDPTASPNBK5EMTM'
	--region='eu-west-1'
	--type='asg'
	--name='centreon-front'
	--filter-metric='Utilization'
	--statistic='average'
	--timeframe='600'
	--period='60'
	--warning-cpu-utilization='80'
	--critical-cpu-utilization='90'
```

Expected command output is shown below: 

```bash 	
OK: Asg 'centreon-front' Statistic 'Average' Metrics CPU Utilization: 35.81 | 'centreon-front~average#ec2.cpu.utilization.percentage'=35.81;80;90;;
```

The command above monitors the CPU Utilization (```--mode=cpu```) of the *centreon-front* (```--name='centreon-front'```) 

> Autoscaling Group  (```--type='asg'```). This ASG is deployed  ithin the AWS eu-west-1 region (```--region='eu-west-1'```). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Autoscaling Group  (```--type='asg'```). This ASG is deployed  within the AWS eu-west-1 region (```--region='eu-west-1'```). 
```

The collected metrics will be parsed as average statistics (```--statistic='average'```) over a timeframe of 600 secondes (```--timeframe='600'```) 
with a sample of 1 point per minute (```--period='60'```).

> This command would trigger a WARNING alert if the CPU Utilization is higher than 80% and a CRITICAL alert if higher than 90.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This command would trigger a WARNING alert if the CPU Utilization is higher than 80% and a CRITICAL alert if higher than 90%.
```

> All the options that can be used with this plugin can be found over the ```--help``` command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All the options that can be used with this Plugin can be displayed by adding the  ```--help``` parameter to the command:
```
